---
title: "Why a16z is Leaving Delaware for Nevada - And You Should Too"
slug: "a16z-leaving-delaware"
description: |
    Andreessen Horowitz, the most reputable VC firm, is abandoning Delaware. Learn why Nevada's superior
    corporate framework makes it the clear choice for modern companies...
created_at: "2025-01-15T10:00:00Z"
---

## Why a16z is Leaving Delaware for Nevada - And You Should Too

Andreessen Horowitz, perhaps the most influential venture capital firm of the past two decades, recently announced its
decision to abandon Delaware as its jurisdiction of choice for new portfolio company incorporations. This represents a
seismic shift in Silicon Valley's long-standing corporate formation orthodoxy. Their reasoning illuminates fundamental
structural flaws in Delaware's corporate governance regime that have grown increasingly problematic for modern
technology companies.

## The Delaware Doctrine Unravels

For generations, Delaware's Court of Chancery has been the undisputed epicenter of American corporate law. Law schools
teach Delaware corporate law as gospel. Investment banks insist on Delaware incorporation. Yet a16z's analysis reveals
that Delaware's supposed advantages have morphed into liabilities for contemporary startups.

The firm's primary critique centers on Delaware's approach to stockholder disputes. The Court of Chancery, originally
designed to provide swift equitable relief in the pre-digital era, now enables a cottage industry of professional
plaintiffs who weaponize derivative litigation against growth companies. These suits, often filed within days of any
material corporate event, impose millions in legal fees and management distraction on companies that should be focused
on innovation and growth.

## Nevada's Superior Framework

Nevada offers a compelling alternative that addresses Delaware's structural deficiencies while providing enhanced
protections for both companies and legitimate stockholders. The Silver State's corporate code reflects decades of
refinement aimed at creating the most business-friendly jurisdiction in America.

Consider Nevada's treatment of director and officer liability. While Delaware permits broad indemnification, Nevada goes
further by allowing complete elimination of personal liability for breaches of fiduciary duty, excepting only
intentional misconduct or knowing violations of law. This protection enables boards to make bold strategic decisions
without the specter of personal financial ruin hanging over every choice.

Nevada's approach to stockholder inspection rights demonstrates similar pragmatism. Unlike Delaware's expansive
interpretation of inspection rights that can burden companies with fishing expeditions, Nevada requires demonstrable
proper purpose backed by credible allegations. This balanced approach protects legitimate stockholder interests while
preventing abusive discovery tactics.

## Tax Advantages Compound the Benefits

The tax implications of Nevada incorporation extend beyond the headline-grabbing absence of state income tax. Nevada
imposes no franchise tax on income, no personal income tax, no unitary tax, and no inventory tax. For a typical
technology startup that generates no profit in early years but carries substantial equity value, Delaware's franchise
tax can reach $200,000 annually based solely on authorized shares and assumed par value. Nevada's business license fee,
by contrast, remains a modest $500 regardless of authorized capital structure.

## Privacy Protections Matter

Nevada's privacy regime provides meaningful advantages in an era of increasing concern about data security and corporate
espionage. The state permits the use of nominee officers and directors, enabling companies to shield actual management
from public databases that competitors, recruiters, and hostile actors routinely mine. Delaware's public records, by
contrast, create a roadmap for those seeking to poach talent or gather competitive intelligence.

## The Venture Capital Seal of Approval

When Andreessen Horowitz declares that its new investments will incorporate in Nevada absent compelling reasons
otherwise, it signals a tectonic shift in venture capital orthodoxy. This firm didn't achieve its position by following
conventional wisdom—it got there by identifying superior strategies before competitors. Their exhaustive analysis of
Nevada's advantages, conducted by teams of the nation's premier corporate lawyers, should prompt any serious
entrepreneur to reconsider reflexive Delaware incorporation.

## The Path Forward

The legal academy will undoubtedly resist this shift. Thousands of law review articles analyze Delaware corporate law.
Hundreds of professors have built careers on Delaware expertise. But path dependence is not legal principle, and
tradition is not strategy. Nevada has spent decades constructing a corporate law framework optimized for modern
business realities rather than nineteenth-century precedents.

For companies considering where to incorporate or reincorporate, the analysis has shifted decisively. Unless your
business model specifically requires Delaware's particular features—perhaps you're planning a complex merger requiring
Court of Chancery precedents—Nevada now represents the superior choice. Lower costs, stronger protections, reduced
litigation risk, and enhanced privacy combine to create a compelling value proposition that even the most prestigious
venture capital firm in Silicon Valley can no longer ignore.

The Delaware era is ending. The Nevada era has begun.
